# web-store-dotnet
Web store fullstack solution based on Onion architecture


## The Problem

The main goal is to implement administrator portal for online shopping that provides:
- the page for viewing, updating, adding and deleting products
- the page for viewing, updating, adding and deleting orders
- the representation of the 10 best selling products

Communication with database should be provided via API.

#### API specification:

- AddProduct - method for adding product
- EditProduct - method for updating product
- DeleteProduct - method for deleting product based on provided product id
- GetProducts - method for selecting all products that match specified criteria
- GetProductDetails - method that returns data for products representing on Details page that match specified criteria
- AddOrder - method for adding order
- EditOrder - method for updating order
- DeleteOrder - method for deleting order based on provided order id
- GetOrders - method for getting all orders, filter is not important
- GetBestBuyProductsInLastMonth - method that returns 10 best selling products in the previous month


#### Admin portal:

- It is necessary to create login portal feature intended for admins.
- Admin portal consists pages for product viewing, adding, updating and deleting.
- Admin portal consists pages for order viewing, adding, updating and deleting.  
- Create 5 categories of products: Shoes, Clothes, Jackets, Shirts, Sneakers. Each of them should consists of three products each. With the fact that some of the products needs to be located in several categories. For instance, sneakers could be in category Sneakers and in category Shoes. 




## The Solution

In this project I was using .NET 5.0 for creating Web API project and a couple of class library projects.
In order to achieve the best practices, entire solution is based on Onion Architecture principle, because it clearly separates the domain of the problem from the underlying technologies that implement the solution. Therefore, to avoid traditional architectures, in which the same data model was used to query and update a database, this solution utilized the power of CQRS. As it separates reads and writes into separate models, using commands to update data, and queries to read data. Mediator pattern in .NET framework is implemented using the MediatR open source implementation. 


### Data Model

#### Products
* Uid - unique product number generated by the system
* Caption - short product name
* Description - product description
* Price - product price rounded on two decimals
* BrandEID - producer; foreign key on the lookup table BrandTypes

#### Categories
* CategoryID - category id
* Caption - short name of category
 
#### SizeTypes
* SizeTypeEID - size id
* Caption - short name of size

#### BrandTypes
* BrandTypeEID - manufacturer id
* Caption - short name of manufacturer

#### Orders
* Uid - order id, generated by the system
* TotalPrice - total price of the product
* CreateDateUtc - date of creating the order

#### OrderItems
* OrderItemID - order item id generated by the system
* Uid - order id
* ProductID - product id
* PricePerUnit - price of single product
* Quantity - amount


### Additional requierments
* Each product should consist at least 3 pictures and 3 sizes
* Some of products should be housed in at least 2 categories

## API Specification
* AddProduct - method for adding product
* EditProduct - method for updating the product
* DeleteProduct - method for deleting the product which for provided id deletes the product
* GetProducts - method that returns all products which matching criteria
* GetProductDetails - method that returns data for viewing product on Details page for provided id
* AddOrder - method for adding order
* EditOrder - method for editing order
* DeleteOrder - method for deleting order for provided order id
* GetOrders - method for getting entered orders, filter is not important
* GetBestBuyProductsInLastMonth - method that returns 10 most sold products from the previous month
It should process validation errors.

## Admin portal
* Make the logging feature on the admin portal
* Admin portal should have pages for viewing and Adding/Editing/Deleting products. Page desing is not important, just needed to process validation errors.
* Admin portal should have pages for viewing and Adding/Editing/Deleting orders. Page desing is not important, just needed to process validation errors.
* Make 5 categories of: Shoes, Clothes, Jackets, Shirts, Sneakers, and each should consist of 3 products.Therewith some of the products should be housed in more than one category, for example: sneakers could be in category Sneakers and in category Shoes.
